@node Colour Spaces
@chapter Colour Spaces

@menu
* RGB::                                     Generic RGB colour spaces.
* sRGB::                                    The Standard RGB colour space.
* CIExyY::                                  The CIE xyY colour model.
* CIEXYZ::                                  The CIE 1931 XYZ colour model.
* CIELAB::                                  The CIE L*a*b* colour model.
* CIELUV::                                  The CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*) colour model.
* CIELChuv::                                The CIE LCh@sub{uv} colour model.
* YIQ::                                     The YIQ colour model.
* YDbDr::                                   The YDbDr colour model.
* YUV::                                     The YUV colour model.
* YPbPr::                                   The YPbPr colour model.
* YCgCo::                                   The YCgCo colour model.
* CIE 1960 UCS::                            The CIE 1960 UCS colour model.
* CIEUVW::                                  The CIE 1964 (U*, V*, W*) colour model.
@end menu



A colour in @command{libcolour} is represented using

@example
typedef union libcolour_colour @{
    enum libcolour_model model;
    struct libcolour_rgb rgb;
    struct libcolour_srgb srgb;
    struct libcolour_ciexyy ciexyy;
    struct libcolour_ciexyz ciexyz;
    struct libcolour_cielab cielab;
    struct libcolour_cieluv cieluv;
    struct libcolour_cielchuv cielchuv;
    struct libcolour_yiq yiq;
    struct libcolour_ydbdr ydbdr;
    struct libcolour_yuv yuv;
    struct libcolour_ypbpr ypbpr;
    struct libcolour_ycgco ycgco;
    struct libcolour_cie1960ucs cie1960ucs;
    struct libcolour_cieuvw cieuvw;
@} libcolour_colour_t;
@end example

@noindent
where @code{.model} is used to select colour model.
Each @code{enum} and @code{struct} is also @code{typedef}:ed
to the same name but with an @code{_t} suffix.

The macro @code{LIBCOLOUR_LIST_MODELS} can be used to list
all available colour models. It expands to a list of
calls to @code{X} with the appropriate value for @code{.model}
as the first argument and the @code{struct}, using the
@code{typedef} name with the @code{_t} suffix, which is used
to represent colours in that colour model as the second
argument. It can used like this:

@example
void print_libcolour_srgb_t(libcolour_srgb* colour)
@{
    printf("sRGB(%lf, %lf, %lf, with_gamma = %i)\n",
           colour->R, colour->G, colour->B, colour->with_gamma);
@}

/* ... */

void print_colour(libcolour_colour_t* colour)
@{
#define X(MODEL, TYPE)\
    case MODEL:\
        print_##TYPE((TYPE*)colour);\
        break;
#undef X
    switch (colour->model) @{
    LIBCOLOUR_LIST_MODELS
    default:
        printf("Unknown colour model!\n");
        break;
    @}
@}
@end example

To convert between a colour into another colour space,
the function @code{libcolour_convert} is used. It takes
two arguments, both if the type @code{libcolour_colour_t*}.
The first parameter is @code{const}, it shall be the
colour you want to convert. The second parameter shall
be a different pointer, and it shall have it's @code{.model}
set to the wanted colour model, and any colour space
specific parameter for that model shall also be set. It
can be used like this:

@example
int to_srgb(const libcolour_colour* from, libcolour_srgb_t* to)
@{
    to->model = LIBCOLOUR_SRGB;
    to->with_gamma = 1;
    return libcolour_convert(from, to);
@}
@end example

@code{libcolour_convert} return 0 on success, on error @math{-1}
is returned and @code{errno} is to indicate the error. Possible
errors are:
@table @code
@item EINVAL
Invalid colour model.
@end table

Colours obtained by conversion can be out of gamut. In RGB
colour spaces, including sRGB, this means that at least one
of the values (@code{.R}, @code{.G}, or @code{.B}) is less
than 0 or greater than 1. @command{libcolour} does not provide
any colour-matching functions for finding an in-gamut colour.



@node RGB
@section Generic RGB

RGB colours, of any RGB colour space, are presented with
@code{struct libcolour_rgb} (@code{libcolour_rgb_t}), and the
@code{.model} member shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB}. In
@code{union libcolour_colour}, @code{.rgb} are used for RGB
colours. RGB colours are additive.

@code{struct libcolour_rgb} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB}.
@item double R
The red value. In-gamut values are between 0 and 1, inclusively.
@item double G
The green value. In-gamut values are between 0 and 1, inclusively.
@item double B
The blue value. In-gamut values are between 0 and 1, inclusively.
@item int with_gamma
Whether the the transfer function is applied to the values
of @code{.R}, @code{.G}, and @code{.B}, which makes them non-linear.
@item enum libcolour_encoding_type encoding_type
One of the following:
@table @code
@item LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_LINEAR
The colour space does not have a transfer function.
@item LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_SIMPLE
The colour space uses a simple gamma transfer function
that only uses the gamma parameter.
@item LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_REGULAR
The colour space uses a linear–gamma hybrid transfer
function that uses the gamma, offset, slope, and
transition parameters.
@item LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM
The colour space uses a custom transfer function.
@end table
@item double gamma
The gamma parameter of the transfer function.
Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_SIMPLE} or
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_REGULAR}.
@item double offset
The offset parameter of the transfer function.
Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_REGULAR}.
@item double slope
The slope parameter of the transfer function.
Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_REGULAR}.
@item double transition
The transition parameter of the transfer
function. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type}
is @code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_REGULAR}.
@item double transitioninv
The inverse value of the transition parameter
of the transfer function, that is, where the
transition takes place in the encoded, rather
than linear, values. This value is set
automatically. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type}
is @code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_REGULAR}.
@item double (*to_encoded_red)(double)
Function used to apply the red channels transfer function
to a value. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM}.
@item double (*to_decoded_red)(double)
Function used to unapply the red channels transfer function
from a value. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM}.
@item double (*to_encoded_green)(double)
Function used to apply the green channels transfer function
to a value. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM}.
@item double (*to_decoded_green)(double)
Function used to unapply the green channels transfer function
from a value. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM}.
@item double (*to_encoded_blue)(double)
Function used to apply the blue channels transfer function
to a value. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM}.
@item double (*to_decoded_blue)(double)
Function used to unapply the blue channels transfer function
from a value. Ignored unless @code{.encoding_type} is
@code{LIBCOLOUR_ENCODING_TYPE_CUSTOM}.
@item struct libcolour_ciexyy red
The CIE xyY value of the red primarily.
@item struct libcolour_ciexyy green
The CIE xyY value of the green primarily.
@item struct libcolour_ciexyy blue
The CIE xyY value of the blue primarily.
@item struct libcolour_ciexyy white
The CIE xyY value of the white point, the Y value
should usually be 1.
@item double white_r
The red value of the white point, should usually by 1.
@item double white_g
The green value of the white point, should usually by 1.
@item double white_b
The blue value of the white point, should usually by 1.
@item double M[3][3]
Matrix used to convert a colour to CIE 1931 XYZ.
@item double Minv[3][3]
Matrix used to convert a colour from CIE 1931 XYZ.
@item enum libcolour_rgb_colour_space colour_space
The colour space. Set automatically.
@end table

@code{libcolour_get_rgb_colour_space} is set the
values in a @code{libcolour_rgb_t} to the those used
to represent a specified RGB colour space.
@code{libcolour_get_rgb_colour_space} has two arguments:
@table @code
@item libcolour_rgb_t*
The @code{struct} whose members shall be set to represent
to selected colour space.
@item enum libcolour_rgb_colour_space
The selected colour space.
@end table

@code{libcolour_get_rgb_colour_space} return 0 on success,
on error @math{-1} is returned and @code{errno} is to indicate
the error. Possible errors are:
@table @code
@item EINVAL
Invalid colour space.
@item EDOM
The specified colour space parameters cannot be used
as it results in matematical errors.
@end table

The following values are available for
@code{enum libcolour_rgb_colour_space} (@code{libcolour_rgb_colour_space_t}):

@table @code
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MEASUREMENTS
A custom colour space. @code{.red}, @code{.green}, @code{.blue},
@code{.white}, @code{.white_r}, @code{.white_g} and @code{.white_b}
must be set. The transfer functions, and parameters, must be set
manually. @code{.colour_space} must be set to any negative value,
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MEASUREMENTS} (zero),
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MATRIX}, or
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_INV_MATRIX}.
@code{.red.Y}, @code{.green.Y}, @code{.blue.Y} can be any value.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MATRIX
A custom colour space. @code{.M}, @code{.white_r}, @code{.white_g}
and @code{.white_b} must be set. The transfer functions, and
parameters, must be set manually. @code{.colour_space} must be
set to any negative value,
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MEASUREMENTS} (zero),
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MATRIX}, or
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_INV_MATRIX}.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_INV_MATRIX
A custom colour space. @code{.Minv}, @code{.white_r}, @code{.white_g}
and @code{.white_b} must be set. The transfer functions, and
parameters, must be set manually. @code{.colour_space} must be
set to any negative value,
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MEASUREMENTS} (zero),
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_MATRIX}, or
@code{LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CUSTOM_FROM_INV_MATRIX}.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_SRGB
The sRGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ADOBE_RGB
The Adobe RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_APPLE_RGB
The Apple RGB (1998) colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_BEST_RGB
The Best RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_BETA_RGB
The Beta RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_BRUCE_RGB
The Bruce RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_CIE_RGB
The CIE 1931 RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_COLORMATCH_RGB
The ColorMatch RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_DCI_P3_D65
The DCI-P3 D65 colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_DCI_P3_THEATER
The DCI-P3 Theater colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_DON_RGB_4
The Don RGB 4 colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ECI_RGB
The ECI RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ECI_RGB_V2
The ECI RGB v2 colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_EKTA_SPACE_PS5
The Ekta Space PS5 colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_601_625_LINE
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.601, 625 line colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_601_525_LINE
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.601, 525 line colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_709
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.709 colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2020
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2020 colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2100_EOTF_PQ
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2100 colour space,
using the perceptual quantization (PQ) elctro-optical
transfer function (EOTF).
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2100_OOTF_PQ
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2100 colour space,
using the perceptual quantization (PQ) opto-optical
transfer function (OOTF).
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2100_OETF_PQ
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2100 colour space,
using the perceptual quantization (PQ) opto-electronic
transfer function (OETF).
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2100_EOTF_HLG
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2100 colour space,
using the Hybrid Log-Gamma (HLG) elctro-optical
transfer function (EOTF).
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2100_OOTF_HLG
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2100 colour space,
using the Hybrid Log-Gamma (HLG) opto-optical
transfer function (OOTF).
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_ITU_R_BT_2100_OETF_HLG
The ITU-R Recommendation BT.2100 colour space,
using the Hybrid Log-Gamma (HLG) opto-electronic
transfer function (OETF).
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_LIGHTROOM_RGB
The Lightroom RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_NTSC_RGB
The NTSC RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_PAL_SECAM_RGB
The PAL/SECAM RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_PROPHOTO_RGB
The ProPhoto RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_SGI_RGB
The SGI RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_SMPTE_240M_RGB
The SMPTE 240M RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_SMPTE_C_RGB
The SMPTE C RGB colour space.
@item LIBCOLOUR_RGB_COLOUR_SPACE_WIDE_GAMUT_RGB
The wide-gamut RGB colour space, also known as
Adobe Wide Gamut RGB.
@end table

The call @code{libcolour_proper(&c)} on a
@code{struct libcolour_rgb_t c} (done automatically for
predefined colour spaces) sets @code{c.red.model},
@code{c.green.model}, and @code{c.blue.model} to
@code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYY}, and calculate and sets the Y
values for @code{c.red}, @code{c.green}, and @code{c.blue}.
Zero is always normally returned, but of there is something
wrong with with the values of the primaries, @math{-1}
is returned and @code{errno} is set to @code{EDOM}.



@node sRGB
@section Standard RGB

sRGB colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_srgb}
(@code{libcolour_srgb_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_SRGB}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.srgb} are used for sRGB colours. This is the colour model
and colour space normally used on computers, it is however not
the colour space your monitor have, although it is close to it.
sRGB is designed after the human eye, but fails to take into
account how the brain process the input to figure out which
colour it actually receives.

@code{struct libcolour_srgb} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_SRGB}.
@item double R
The red value. In-gamut values are between 0 and 1, inclusively.
@item double G
The green value. In-gamut values are between 0 and 1, inclusively.
@item double B
The blue value. In-gamut values are between 0 and 1, inclusively.
@item int with_gamma
Whether the the transfer function is applied to the values of
@code{.R}, @code{.G}, and @code{.B}, which makes them non-linear.
@end table

The RGB color model, of which sRGB is a specific colour space,
is an additive colour model.

For your convenience, the sRGB transfer function and its inverse
function is available for your use:

@table @code
@item double libcolour_srgb_encode(double x)
Applies the sRGB transfer function.
@item double libcolour_srgb_decode(double x)
Unapplies the sRGB transfer function.
@end table



@node CIExyY
@section CIE xyY

CIE xyY colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_ciexyy}
(@code{libcolour_ciexyy_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYY}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.ciexyy} are used for CIE xyY colours. This colour space is
derived from CIE 1931 XYZ and is primarily used for representing
chromaticities.

@code{struct libcolour_ciexyy} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYY}.
@item double x
The x value.
@item double y
The y value.
@item double Y
The Y value.
@end table

CIE xyY is not additive. CIE xyY is defined by
@math{x = X/(X + Y + Z)}, @math{y = Y/(X + Y + Z)}
where X, Y, and Z are CIE XYZ values.


@node CIEXYZ
@section CIE 1931 XYZ

CIE 1931 XYZ colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_ciexyz}
(@code{libcolour_ciexyz_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYZ}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.ciexyz} are used for CIE 1931 XYZ colours. This colour space
is derived from CIE 1931 RGB and is used as an intermediary
representation when converting between many colour spaces and
colour models, making it very useful for device independent colour
representation.

@code{struct libcolour_ciexyz} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYZ}.
@item double X
The X value.
@item double Y
The Y value.
@item double Z
The Z value.
@end table

CIE 1931 XYZ is additive, since it is defined by matrix
multiplication with CIE 1932 RGB which is additive because
it is an RGB colour space.



@node CIELAB
@section CIE L*a*b*

CIE L*a*b* colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_cielab}
(@code{libcolour_cielab_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIELAB}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.cielab} are used for CIE L*a*b* colours. CIE L*a*b*
approximates human colour perception with a lightness parameter
(L*) and two chromaticity parameters (a* and b*), it is therefore
useful in image manipulation applications.

@code{struct libcolour_cielab} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIELAB}.
@item double L
The L* value. 0 is black, 100 is white.
@item double a
The a* value. Negative values are green, positive values are red.
@item double b
The b* value. Negative values are blue, positive values are yellow.
@end table

CIE L*a*b* is not additive, since conversion from
CIE 1931 XYZ is non-linear. It's white point is the CIE Standard
Illuminant D50.



@node CIELUV
@section CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*)

CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*) colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_cieluv}
(@code{libcolour_cieluv_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall be set to
@code{LIBCOLOUR_CIELUV}. In @code{union libcolour_colour}, @code{.cieluv}
are used for CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*) colours. CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*)
approximates uniform human colour perception.

@code{struct libcolour_cieluv} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIELUV}.
@item double L
The L* value. 0 is black, 100 is white.
@item double u
The u* value.
@item double v
The v* value.
@item struct libcolour_ciexyz white
The white point.
@end table

CIE L*u*v* is not additive, since conversion from
CIE 1931 XYZ is non-linear.

The call @code{libcolour_proper(&c)} on a
@code{struct libcolour_cieluv_t c} sets
@code{c.white.model} to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYZ}.
Zero is always returned in this case.



@node CIELChuv
@section CIE LCh@sub{uv}

CIE LCh@sub{uv} (also known as CIE HLC@sub{uv}) colours are presented
with @code{struct libcolour_cielchuv} (@code{libcolour_cielchuv_t}), and
the @code{.model} member shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIELCHUV}. In
@code{union libcolour_colour}, @code{.cielchuv} are used for CIE LCh@sub{uv}
colours. CIE LCh@sub{uv} approximates uniform human colour perception
using cylindrical representation.

@code{struct libcolour_cielchuv} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIELCHUV}.
@item double L
The L* value. 0 is black, 100 is white.
@item double C
@iftex
The @math{{\rm C}^{*}_{\rm uv}} value, the chroma.
@end iftex
@ifnottex
The C*@sub{uv} value, the chroma.
@end ifnottex
@item double h
The h@sub{uv} value, the hue.
@item struct libcolour_ciexyz white
The white point.
@item double one_revolution
The value lowest positive values of @code{h} that is equivalent to 0.
360 if the hue is measured in degrees, 400 if the hue is measured in
gon, and 2 pi if the hue is measured radian. Any value can be used.
@end table

CIE LCh@sub{uv} is not additive. It is a cylindrical
representation of CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*).

The call @code{libcolour_proper(&c)} on a
@code{struct libcolour_cielchuv_t c} sets
@code{c.white.model} to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEXYZ},
and if @code{c.one_revolution} is 0, it is set
to 360. Zero is always returned in this case.


@node YIQ
@section YIQ

YIQ colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_yiq}
(@code{libcolour_yiq_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YIQ}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.yiq} are used for YIQ colours.

@code{struct libcolour_yiq} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YIQ}.
@item double Y
The Y value, the luma. 0 is black, 1 is white.
@item double I
The I (in-phase) value. Negative values are blue, positive values are orange.
@item double Q
The Q (quadrature) value. Negative values are green, positive values are purple.
@end table

YIQ is additive, since conversion from CIE 1931 XYZ is done
with a matrix multiplication. It's white point is the CIE
Standard Illuminant D65.



@node YDbDr
@section YDbDr

YDbDr colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_ydbdr}
(@code{libcolour_ydbdr_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YDBDR}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.ydbdr} are used for YDbDr colours.

@code{struct libcolour_ydbdr} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YDBDR}.
@item double Y
The Y value, the luma. 0 is black, 1 is white.
@item double Db
The Db value. Difference (with a factor) between Y and blue.
@item double Dr
The Dr value. Difference (with a factor) between Y and red.
@end table

YDbDr is additive, since conversion from CIE 1931 XYZ is done
with a matrix multiplication. It's white point is the CIE
Standard Illuminant D65.



@node YUV
@section YUV

YUV colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_yuv}
(@code{libcolour_yuv_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YUV}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.yuv} are used for YUV colours.

@code{struct libcolour_yuv} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YUV}.
@item double Y
The Y value, the luma. 0 is black, 1 is white.
@item double U
The U value. Difference (with a factor) between Y and blue.
@item double V
The V value. Difference (with a factor) between Y and red.
@end table

YUV is additive, since conversion from YDbDr is done
with a diagonal matrix multiplication. It's white point is
the CIE Standard Illuminant D65.



@node YPbPr
@section YP@sub{B}P@sub{R}

YP@sub{B}P@sub{R} colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_ypbpr}
(@code{libcolour_ypbpr_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YPBPR}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.ypbpr} are used for YP@sub{B}P@sub{R} colours.

@code{struct libcolour_ypbpr} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YPBPR}.
@item double Y
The Y value, the luma. 0 is black, 1 is white.
@item double Pb
The P@sub{B} value. Difference between Y and blue.
@item double Pr
The P@sub{R} value. Difference between Y and red.
@end table

YPbPr is additive, since conversion from CIE 1931 XYZ is done
with a matrix multiplication. It's white point is the CIE
Standard Illuminant D65.



@node YCgCo
@section YCgCo

YCgCo colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_ycgco}
(@code{libcolour_ycgco_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YCGCO}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.ycgco} are used for YCgCo colours.

@code{struct libcolour_ycgco} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_YCGCO}.
@item double Y
The Y value, the luminance. 0 is black, 1 is white.
@item double Cg
The Cg (chrominance green) value.
@item double co
The Co (chrominance orange) value.
@end table

YCgCo is additive, since conversion from CIE 1931 XYZ is done
with a matrix multiplication. It's white point is the CIE
Standard Illuminant D65.



@node CIE 1960 UCS
@section CIE 1960 UCS

CIE 1960 UCS colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_cie1960ucs}
(@code{libcolour_cie1960ucs_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIE1960UCS}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.cie1960ucs} are used for CIE 1960 UCS colours.

@code{struct libcolour_cie1960ucs} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIE1960UCS}.
@item double u
The u value.
@item double v
The v value.
@item double Y
The Y value, the luminance.
@end table

CIE 1960 UCS is not additive. CIE 1960 UCS is defined by
@math{u = 4X/(X + 15Y + 3Z)}, @math{v = 6Y/(X + 15Y + 3Z)}
where X, Y, and Z are CIE XYZ values.



@node CIEUVW
@section CIE 1964 (U*, V*, W*)

CIE 1964 (U*, V*, W*) colours are presented with @code{struct libcolour_cieuvw}
(@code{libcolour_cieuvw_t}), and the @code{.model} member shall
be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEUVW}. In @code{union libcolour_colour},
@code{.cieuvw} are used for CIE 1964 (U*, V*, W*) colours.

@code{struct libcolour_cieuvw} has the following members
@table @code
@item enum libcolour_model model
Shall be set to @code{LIBCOLOUR_CIEUVW}.
@item double U
The U* value.
@item double V
The V* value.
@item double W
The W* value.
@item double u0
The u' chromaticity coordinate of a ``specified white object''.
u' is defined as @math{4X/(X + 15Y + 3Z)} where X, Y, and Z
are CIE 1931 XYZ values.
@item double v0
The v' chromaticity coordinate of a ``specified white object''.
u' is defined as @math{9Y/(X + 15Y + 3Z)} where X, Y, and Z
are CIE 1931 XYZ values.
@end table

CIE 1960 UCS is not additive.

