@c  This file includes everything after the titlepage.


@ifnothtml
@c @shortcontents  @c (if the table of content gets too large.)
@contents
@end ifnothtml


@menu
* Overview::                                Brief overview of @command{libcolour}.
* Colour Spaces::                           Colour-space conversion.
* Illuminants::                             Illuminant initialisers.

* Free Software Needs Free Documentation::  Why free documentation is important.
* GNU General Public License::              Copying and sharing @command{libcolour}.
* GNU Free Documentation License::          Copying and sharing this manual.

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Overview

Colour Spaces
* RGB::                                     Generic RGB colour spaces.
* sRGB::                                    The Standard RGB colour space.
* CIExyY::                                  The CIE xyY colour model.
* CIEXYZ::                                  The CIE 1931 XYZ colour model.
* CIELAB::                                  The CIE L*a*b* colour model.
* CIELUV::                                  The CIE 1976 (L*, u*, v*) colour model.
* CIELCh::                                  The CIE LCh colour model.
* YIQ::                                     The YIQ colour model.
* YDbDr::                                   The YDbDr colour model.
* YUV::                                     The YUV colour model.
* YPbPr::                                   The YPbPr colour model.
* YCgCo::                                   The YCgCo colour model.
* CIE 1960 UCS::                            The CIE 1960 UCS colour model.
* CIEUVW::                                  The CIE 1964 (U*, V*, W*) colour model.

Illuminants


Free Software Needs Free Documentation

GNU General Public License

GNU Free Documentation License
@end detailmenu
@end menu
@c In GNU Emacs a @detailmenu can be created with `C-c C-u m`.


@include chap/overview.texinfo
@include chap/colour-spaces.texinfo
@include chap/illuminants.texinfo

@include appx/free-software-needs-free-documentation.texinfo

@node GNU General Public License
@appendix GNU General Public License
@include appx/gpl.texinfo

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include appx/fdl.texinfo

